README.md, before:

# Pydantic Settings Config Loader Demo

This project, `pydantic_settings_config_loader_demo`, demonstrates the use of Pydantic for data validation and settings management. It includes configuration using Poetry for dependency management and pytest for testing.

---

## Prerequisites

### Required Programs

Before setting up this project, ensure the following programs are installed:

### Homebrew

Homebrew is a package manager for macOS, used to install other tools like `asdf` and `jq`.
Installation:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### jq

jq is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor, used for automating JSON file generation.
Installation:

```bash
brew install jq
```

### asdf

asdf is a version manager for multiple runtimes like Python, Node.js, Java, Go, etc.
Installation:

```bash
brew install asdf
```

Add asdf to your shell by adding the following lines to your shell configuration (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc):

For `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
echo '. $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh' >> ~/.zshrc
```

For `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
echo '. $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
```

After adding the line, reload the shell configuration file for the changes to take effect:

For `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

For `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

### python

Install the Python plugin and Python 3.11.8 using asdf:

```bash
asdf plugin add python
asdf install python 3.11.8
asdf global python 3.11.8
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
python --version
```

### poetry

Poetry is a dependency and environment management tool for Python, designed to simplify the process of managing Python packages and virtual environments.

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Automating VS Code Extensions Setup

To ensure all team members use the same set of VS Code extensions, you can automate the generation of the .vscode/extensions.json file. This file contains recommendations for the extensions required for this project.

Generate the extensions.json File
Run the following command in the project directory:

```bash
code --list-extensions | jq -R . | jq -s '{ "recommendations": . }' > .vscode/extensions.json
```

This will create or overwrite the .vscode/extensions.json file with a list of currently installed extensions, formatted for VS Code's recommendations.

## Setting Up the Project

1. Clone the Repository:

    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd pydantic_settings_config_loader_demo
    ```

1. Install Dependencies:

    ```bash
    poetry install
    poetry run pre-commit install --overwrite
    ```

    or

    ```bash
    poetry run setup
    ```

1. Run Tests: Run the tests using pytest:

    ```bash
    poetry run pytest
    ```

Commit message:

pre-commit hooks are configured

README.md, after:

# Pydantic Settings Config Loader Demo

This project, `pydantic_settings_config_loader_demo`, demonstrates the use of Pydantic for data validation and settings management. It includes configuration using Poetry for dependency management and pytest for testing.

---

## Prerequisites

### Required Programs

Before setting up this project, ensure the following programs are installed:

### Homebrew

Homebrew is a package manager for macOS, used to install other tools like `asdf` and `jq`.
Installation:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

### jq

jq is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor, used for automating JSON file generation.
Installation:

```bash
brew install jq
```

### asdf

asdf is a version manager for multiple runtimes like Python, Node.js, Java, Go, etc.
Installation:

```bash
brew install asdf
```

Add asdf to your shell by adding the following lines to your shell configuration (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc):

For `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
echo '. $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh' >> ~/.zshrc
```

For `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
echo '. $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
```

After adding the line, reload the shell configuration file for the changes to take effect:

For `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
source ~/.zshrc
```

For `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

### python

Install the Python plugin and Python 3.11.8 using asdf:

```bash
asdf plugin add python
asdf install python 3.11.8
asdf global python 3.11.8
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
python --version
```

### poetry

Poetry is a dependency and environment management tool for Python, designed to simplify the process of managing Python packages and virtual environments.

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

### Automating VS Code Extensions Setup

To ensure all team members use the same set of VS Code extensions, you can automate the generation of the .vscode/extensions.json file. This file contains recommendations for the extensions required for this project.

Generate the extensions.json File
Run the following command in the project directory:

```bash
code --list-extensions | jq -R . | jq -s '{ "recommendations": . }' > .vscode/extensions.json
```

This will create or overwrite the .vscode/extensions.json file with a list of currently installed extensions, formatted for VS Code's recommendations.

## Setting Up the Project

1. Clone the Repository:

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd pydantic_settings_config_loader_demo
   ```

1. Install Dependencies:

   ```bash
   poetry install
   poetry run pre-commit install --overwrite
   ```

   or

   ```bash
   poetry run setup
   ```

1. Run Tests: Run the tests using pytest:

   ```bash
   poetry run pytest
   ```

## Running Pre-commit hooks

This command executes all the pre-commit hooks defined in your .pre-commit-config.yaml file on all files in your repository, regardless of whether they have been modified or staged for commit. It ensures that your entire codebase adheres to the standards and checks specified by your pre-commit hooks.

```bash
poetry run pre-commit run --all-files
```
